.TH "presentation/ascii_art.h" 3 "Sat Mar 22 2025 15:19:14" "Version 1.0.0" "TikTakToe" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
presentation/ascii_art.h \- Contains ASCII art constants for the TikTakToe game\&.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Macros"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBHEADING_LINES\fP   3"
.br
.RI "Number of lines in the heading ASCII art for plain text mode\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBHEADING\fP   '\\n TikTakToe \\n'"
.br
.RI "Plain text heading for the game\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCROSS_WINS\fP   '\\n \fBCross\fP Wins! \\n'"
.br
.RI "Plain text message displayed when the cross player wins\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCIRCLE_WINS\fP   '\\n \fBCircle\fP Wins! \\n'"
.br
.RI "Plain text message displayed when the circle player wins\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBITS_A_TIE\fP   '\\n It's a Tie! \\n'"
.br
.RI "Plain text message displayed when the game ends in a tie\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBPLAYER_STARTS\fP   '\\n \fBPlayer\fP starts! \\n'"
.br
.RI "Plain text message displayed when the player starts the game\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCOMPUTER_STARTS\fP   '\\n Computer starts! \\n'"
.br
.RI "Plain text message displayed when the computer starts the game\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCIRCLE_STARTS\fP   '\\n \fBCircle\fP starts! \\n'"
.br
.RI "Plain text message displayed when the circle player starts the game\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBCROSS_STARTS\fP   '\\n \fBCross\fP starts! \\n'"
.br
.RI "Plain text message displayed when the cross player starts the game\&. "
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Contains ASCII art constants for the TikTakToe game\&. 

This file defines macros for ASCII art used in the TikTakToe game, including headings, win messages, and start messages\&. The ASCII art adapts based on whether Unicode or plain text is enabled\&.

.PP
\fBNote\fP
.RS 4
Ensure that ENABLE_ASCII_ART and ENABLE_UNICODE are defined appropriately to use the desired ASCII art format\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBCopyright\fP
.RS 4
This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public License, v2\&.0\&. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/\&. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition in file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SH "Macro Definition Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define CIRCLE_STARTS   '\\n \fBCircle\fP starts! \\n'"

.PP
Plain text message displayed when the circle player starts the game\&. 
.PP
Definition at line \fB207\fP of file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SS "#define CIRCLE_WINS   '\\n \fBCircle\fP Wins! \\n'"

.PP
Plain text message displayed when the circle player wins\&. 
.PP
Definition at line \fB183\fP of file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SS "#define COMPUTER_STARTS   '\\n Computer starts! \\n'"

.PP
Plain text message displayed when the computer starts the game\&. 
.PP
Definition at line \fB201\fP of file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SS "#define CROSS_STARTS   '\\n \fBCross\fP starts! \\n'"

.PP
Plain text message displayed when the cross player starts the game\&. 
.PP
Definition at line \fB213\fP of file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SS "#define CROSS_WINS   '\\n \fBCross\fP Wins! \\n'"

.PP
Plain text message displayed when the cross player wins\&. 
.PP
Definition at line \fB177\fP of file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SS "#define HEADING   '\\n TikTakToe \\n'"

.PP
Plain text heading for the game\&. 
.PP
Definition at line \fB171\fP of file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SS "#define HEADING_LINES   3"

.PP
Number of lines in the heading ASCII art for plain text mode\&. 
.PP
Definition at line \fB165\fP of file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SS "#define ITS_A_TIE   '\\n It's a Tie! \\n'"

.PP
Plain text message displayed when the game ends in a tie\&. 
.PP
Definition at line \fB189\fP of file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SS "#define PLAYER_STARTS   '\\n \fBPlayer\fP starts! \\n'"

.PP
Plain text message displayed when the player starts the game\&. 
.PP
Definition at line \fB195\fP of file \fBascii_art\&.h\fP\&.
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for TikTakToe from the source code\&.
